---
layout: post 
title: "Slides, Shells, and Sacred Space: Bringing Worship
Online with Reveal.js" 
date: 2025-05-04 
--- 
A  couple of weeks ago, I shared on [my WordPress blog](https://richardhall.online/online-worship) how I’d started experimenting with [reveal.js](https://reveal.js) (a web-based presentation framework) for
isharing online worship. At the time, it was an experiment. I was curious whether
something designed for conference talks and tech demos could work as a simple,
elegant way to offer liturgy, readings, and reflection online.

It did. It more than worked—it became a space. A chapel. Not in the traditional
sense, but something that still invited stillness, participation, and
contemplation. People clicked through, prayed through, and I kept learning.

Since then, I’ve taken things a step further. I’ve set up a custom
url:[onlinechapel.uk](https://onlinechapel.uk). It’s now the home for these
worship slides, gently animated and quietly scriptural. But what’s made the
process more interesting (and at times frustrating) is that I’ve been learning
how to build and maintain all this using the command line.  

### Confessions of a Cleric at the Terminal

I didn’t grow up writing shell scripts or compiling code. My comfort zone was
always in text editors and web browsers—not terminal windows with blinking
cursors. But when I started thinking more seriously about how this project could
live independently—outside of commercial platforms, without unnecessary clutter
or distractions—I realised I needed to understand the tools behind the screen.

So I started using Git. I learned how to push changes to GitHub from the
terminal. I got a domain name and configured DNS records (with only mild panic).
I used a "static site generator" and began to understand how ssh access works.
Somewhere along the way I even started to understand what a “bash script” does,
though I've not actually written one of my own yet.

And here’s the surprising thing: the command line isn’t just a place for
technical incantations—it’s oddly contemplative. You focus. You type
deliberately. There are fewer distractions than a GUI, fewer shiny buttons to
click. It turns out, writing code in Vim and building worship slides in markdown
have something in common: both are about stripping things down to essentials.

### Sacred Simplicity

The new Online Chapel isn’t flashy. It’s intentionally minimal. It opens with a
title and a line of scripture. You press the right arrow key. You move through
the service. There are no sign-ups, no analytics, no autoplaying videos. Just
words, timing, and presence.

Behind it, though, is a quiet framework of open-source code, version control,
and hand-crafted HTML. It’s not magic. It’s just simple tools being used
prayerfully.

And maybe that’s the point.

I’m still learning. Every time I touch the terminal, I have to Google at least
three things. But I’m learning to build digital space the way I’ve learned to
lead worship: not perfectly, but attentively.
